thank you everyone uh for joining my
session titled hundred million ar pivot
from platform product to vertical apps
i'm kazuki ota i'm the founder and ceo
of the company called treasure data
and i was uh formerly cto
but i became a ceo from june 1st this
year
so today
i am going to talk about the pivot we
had around um year 425
so i started this company around 2011
so it has been almost 10 years
and we grew from zero to 100 million arr
plus in last 10 years
and as you can see for the first four to
five years we've been growing nicely
around zero to
20 million arr
but
since then we grew from 25 to 100
million dollar plus in
three years
and this involved with the one huge
pivot from becoming the technology
oriented a platform product which is the
big data problem product
to the marketing application
product
and today i'm going to talk about a lot
of struggle and tough decisions we made
and we had like uh 15 minutes but really
the presentation is about 30 to 35
minutes and i would like to have a lot
of q a
so
please ask any questions via zoom and i
would appreciate and i want this
session to be more interactive
so let's talk about why how we came from
0 million arr to 10 million arr for the
first three years
so first of all let me talk about my
background
so my background is computer scientist i
was specialized in hpc high performance
computing
i was a visiting researcher at argonne
national laboratory in chicago
and
they have a super computer called blue
gene
which combines almost a half million
compute nodes into one and create one of
the world's largest and fastest
supercomputer at that time
and they run a lot of nuclear simulation
aerodynamic simulation various
scientific simulation programs
and these programs generate a lot of
data
i was fortunate enough to become a part
of the team member
to
store and process large amount of data
with that supercomputer
and around that time i realized the
power of data
and i also thought that okay this type
of environment can be only purchased
from department of energy or the
government but this environment really
really needs to be democratized to a lot
of other companies so that they can have
the power of the data
and
i was also interested in another
open source software called hadoop
and hadoop was open sourced by yahoo but
the software itself is really really
modeled after how google
is processing large amount of the data
so um i started committing some patches
to hadoop project
and more importantly
i started organizing the community in
japan where i was born around hadoop
and it was just a three people nerd
community but it expanded into 3 000
people community
uh in two years
and i was fortunate enough to become a
founder of that community
and within that 3 000 people community i
was talking with a lot of people who is
trying to analyze the data in various
industries and learn there were three
key common problems we need to solve
one it takes time to analyze the data it
takes like almost 18 months to start
analyzing the data and the success ratio
was only 30
and two you have to hire a lot of
computer scientists and phds to do it
but at the time facebook twitter those
companies can do it but more traditional
companies cannot maintain or even hire
these type of people and team
and three you have to have a lot of
upfront investment
you have to have a lot of
huge data appliances their warehouse
appliances network gears and hardwares
and disk drives and does cost like a lot
and you need to have a lot of upfront
investment um
just to start the project
so those two three key problems i was
just thinking okay why don't we host
this software called hadoop in the cloud
so that people can one
instantly analyze the data
to you don't have to hire a lot of
computer scientists
and three you don't need any upfront
investment you can just subscribe and
having the monthly recurring payment and
then start analyzing the data
so that was really simple but you know
key idea i had around 2011
and uh i was 25 nothing to lose i came
to silicon valley and then started
raising the additional uh the angel
round
uh together with my co-founder hiro and
sada
but the investors were like um who is
throwing away the data to the cloud
and i guess everyone does right now but
that was sort of the biggest bet we had
and uh cloud is now you know the
mainstream right but around that time it
was not popular
and so that was the original idea and
those two slides were actually coming
from our series a investor pitch
but
long story short we grew from zero to
five million arr in two years
uh but in reality we closed 3.6 million
and 1.2 million arr deal led by founders
so if you look at this 96 percent comes
from these like two gigantic deals led
by founders
and uh if you look at on the left side
uh the green is the recognized revenue
so it's going nicely the
blue is the booking so if you can see we
close one point two one point uh
three point two million six million
dollar arr deal
and uh the ar archive or in terms of
revenue is growing nicely right
and uh
at this point okay we decided to raise
additional series a round
and we decided to do more you know
pipeline generation hire more sales work
with more channels right
and uh although we released the product
around 2011 q4
within um
six quarters we
we become you know five million
committed arr company
and more bookings are coming from these
large deals led by founders
and within this six quarter period of
time the product gets a little bit
matured
and our product
consists of uh three product lines the
data collection data warehouse the
analysis
the
[Music]
fluentd is invented this is the open
source data collector
and where we were collecting more than
80 billion records per month into the
product around this time
we also ingest a lot of data in the bulk
question
and in terms of data warehouse
we built a really scalable columnar
storage
with the hadoop map reduce data
processing job
really storing 360 billion records
executing almost 2 million jobs in total
and then we made a lot of connection
with the bi tools and dash 4 product
so what you really what you can really
do is collecting a lot of data
and uh processing the data and then
visualizing it so that was really the
product around this time
and we really didn't know how to call
ourselves but
we positioned ourselves as a big data
platform as a service at this point
and if you look at on the right side the
competitive landscape
in the data analytics stacks
we had a lot of layers
so the data storage layer data
collection layer hadoop distribution and
processing platform
so
our products is designed for okay we
become the cloud one stop shop so that
our customers don't have to uh piece up
a lot of technology into one place
and rather you just subscribe treasure
data and you don't have to worry about
these complexities well you can bring in
the visualization then bi tool you have
so that was really the pitch and product
around series a
and we grew from zero to three million
to five million that are in two years
and then we became uh ten million dollar
in three years
so if you look at on the right side so
those are the slides from our series b
deck
around 2014 q4
we are about to cross a 2.5 million
dollar revenue
quarter
and
pretty little professional service
predominantly the subscription
and
what
was in reality though is we were still
the founder-led sales company even at
the 10 million dollar
so at this point we were around 50
employees
more geographically distributed between
modern view california and tokyo
and 120 plus customers but i would say
for the
uh top five customers consists of more
than 95 to 97 percent of the revenue so
that was a huge concern
from series a and series b investors of
course right
and we got a really good gross margin uh
72 percent at this time
and a little bit of recognition from the
analyst gartner recognized ourselves as
a gartner cool vendor in 2014.
and we've been building really good ips
such as fluentd and message pack
and we open sourced it and then we got a
good traction from that open source
angle as well
um but again uh those three years
were having fun but the problem is uh we
were feeling like we're going to the
graveyard at a 10 million dollar arr
range
so um
uh why we felt that is we really really
didn't feel like we had a sense of
product market fit
um so after we raised some more money we
decided to hire the vp of sales
but they couldn't consistently meet the
quota
right
and if you look at the bottom
last 10 years we've been going through
six corporate logos changes in last 10
years and that's how we changed how many
times we changed the head of design and
video marketing
and
we decided to hire vp of marketing from
a couple of data companies who are
really really successful
but they couldn't consistently generate
the pipeline and then
if this happens sales and marketing is
not going well right
and more importantly
all of the account executives we hired
only one of them
could have consistently hit the target
but of course with the help from the
founders
so
we decided to okay
we were now closing a lot of deals led
by funders and now we need to scale the
sales team but we really really couldn't
so that was the real struggle we had
and the biggest threat we had at that
time also was
amazon google microsoft are trying to
commoditize everything from the
infrastructure layer
so at er223 aws released new product
called amazon redshift which is the
cloud data warehouse product at aws
reinvent that's their annual big cloud
conferences
and the google released a new product
called bigquery which is the cloud-based
data processing engine
and
after these product gets released we
really really have to compete against
amazon and then google
and then as a result
we observed all of the important sas
kpois were suddenly about to go wrong
it was not necessarily bad
in the current quarter but we clearly
foresee
within three to four quarters it's just
going to be really really bad
so the asp was shrinking
because the conversation with the
prospects and customers always starts
like okay
amazon then google offers xerodura
signup and trial why treasure data is
not right
and the local churn was going up
a lot of small sized companies tend to
always look for you know better cheaper
alternatives and amazon google they have
better brands of course than treasure
data in terms of the
the cloud offering
nrr was not going up
we closed a couple large customers
and they run treasure data
for the entire business line such as
game analytics telematics analytics and
then couple others
but
and then they were adding more
computation and storage every year but
at the time you know they also started
evaluating
amazon and google products
our deal velocity went down so the deal
cycle gets longer
which is really really bad
and our close rate went down because now
we have to fight against these
competitive products almost every single
deal
so what really really happened on the
right side is our deal complete
complexity remained really high
the reason why our deal complexity was
high is we were selling the platform
product
so what we need to do in the sales cycle
is we need to figure out what customer
actually want so doing a little bit of
what is called the solution setting
so figuring out the customer pain points
putting uh some of the solution into
together uh including the ps and
dashboard and of course our platform
product and couple other products
um bundling some implementation service
and really solving the uh the customer's
problem so that was very complex sales
cycle
but now what happened was we sold like
seven figure large deals but the the
price is getting lower and lower so
that's actually a graveyard as a startup
so we clearly needed the pivot
about
how we sell the product and then the
product itself
but we don't know
how to change ourselves
right
so let's talk a little bit about how we
pivoted
so when the company is not
going well what you need to have is a
really good investor base and then angel
investor base
so we talked with the people like bill
thai tan shaman tim andy and jerry yan
who is the co-founder of yahoo
and
as we spoke with uh those uh great
advert advisor for us uh we had a 30
minutes meeting with jerriann and he
really laid out uh two ways to go
in terms of the company direction
one is build more tech stocks on top of
our platform and then going into the
application layer solving the end to end
problem so that's the one way to go
the second is
raising a lot of money and then fighting
against amazon and google with the
performance for price
there was a similar company called
snowflake computing
so they took a route of 2 by raising 1
billion plus
but
treasure data founders were not hyper
profile funders like them in silicon
valley so
we have zero idea how to raise more than
like a billion dollar plus from the the
investor base
so
really the uh option one was the only
way to go
so i was really really or we were really
really fortunate enough to have a really
good advisors at treasure data
and i was also thinking okay
now we decided to go to end to end
application route
what's the pros and cons right
so if you think about the platform
we were just solving the one layer of
the entire stack
but you can address wide range of the
problems
um which
investor really really likes the story
right because you can address a lot of
problems and go big
while end to end you solve very specific
but complete um business problem right
so that's very different
and when it comes to sales and marketing
end-to-end application it's narrower but
you can consistently pitch the value
right while on the platform side
you can say okay you can address broader
range of use cases but it's very
different each time
so when it comes to consistent sales and
marketing
end to end it's much easier to ramp up
the sales team while platform is harder
right
and what's most important for us was
also the reliance on the partners
because platform solves one layer of the
entire stack we needed to rely on
adjacent tech and implementation
partners and it always comes together
within our sales cycle so it was really
hard to control the entire sales process
while on the application side we need to
solve the complete problems by the
product so that sales and marketing can
control the entire sales process just by
ourselves strategy data
engineering mindset needs to be changed
and to end apps
you are deploying you know tens of times
a day while on the platform side what
you really need stability scalability
compatibility a lot of a customer
actually didn't want us to change while
they just want more performance per
price right
and on the pricing side we had a really
good margin for the first years like 70
percent plus
but
we are getting a lot of pressure from
our customers especially compared
against google and amazon
so the infrastructure-ish
sas company they intend to have around
20 to 30 percent margin
but if you go to end-to-end application
they tend to have more than 70 percent
which is great
platform side it's more difficult to be
replaced
because you're just becoming the
foundation for the customer's business
while end-to-end up you can pick up the
competitor and replace quickly right
so those are the pros and cons between
the app and platform
and while investors really like the
story of the platform
but you know as an early stage company
into an apps is much better way to go to
market especially because you have more
consistent and predictable sales and
marketing motion
and also you can control the entire
sales process
so that was the take uh uh
by uh
researching a lot of sas companies at
that time
okay
now we understood the pros and cons of
apps and platform what we're gonna do
uh listen to the customer
um based on our observation and then
interview with the customer turned out
on top of a data platform
90 of our customers were analyzing
customer data including the data coming
from web and mobile and social and crm
and even though our counterpart was a
technology engineering team
it turned out 90
of the requests about the data were
coming from marketing team and it's all
about user acquisition retention upsell
and cross-sell
right and uh after that um you know
through a lot of interviews with the
customer we decided to build a really
simple marketing application on top of
our data platform
which does three things customer
identification
across multiple data sources
customer segmentation and an activation
and we built this little app on top of
our data platform
we didn't know how to call this app
but we decided to call this as a cdp
customer data platform because
around 2017
i found this little category called cdp
in the market landscape or chaos map
and there were 20-30 vendors in it but i
really really liked it because there's
no amazon and google here
after fighting against amazon google
microsoft everything feels like it's
easier to fight against right
so we decided to jump in into this
category and then of course i thought
this category will be expanding a lot
and the transition was not easy of
course
around
year four to five
18 months to almost two years
it was a war time we didn't add a lot of
employees but
we were around hundred plus people
company
so first of all these people only a few
people were convinced
i was fortunate enough my co-founders
ceo cfo at that time
believed in me
as a head of product and engineering
i decided this choice right
and there was a lot of human dramas too
one vp were not convinced the
destruction
so he
came to the board and trying to fire me
so in this chaotic time those human
drama can easily occur too
what i was doing was instead of trying
to convince every single one of people
in the company
uh i formed five people small team like
myself another co-founder
front-end back-end machine learning
engineer
really you know pizza size team
and then finding the two two three
design partners and get them subscribed
in the production with the production
mrr
and once i show more customers logos
with the real amount of dollars
more people became more supportive
and while i'm doing this which takes you
know which took six months to nine
months to even just
the prototype and get the first customer
sales team of course didn't want to wait
for it
so the team wanted to try out multiple
products so as a head of product
i decided to build two products in
parallel
one is cdp i mentioned the marketing
application
and also we had a really good traction
on the open source side which is full
indeed
so i built the enterprise open source
full and d product and we also spent a
lot of sales and marketing data to this
product and this
line of business went from zero to one
million dollar in
arr in two years
but we decided to shutting down after
three years
because cdp was growing faster
so if you look at this sometimes if you
foresee that your company is going into
the graveyard you read very lonely and
tough decisions
and it turned out for us this was a 100
million dollar plus arr decision which i
will talk about later
but uh you know we had a lot of blood
and struggles
um this means we
decided to slow down the innovations
for the existing 10 million dollar arr
customer base
so we had a lot of
customer churns
and
in fact we have
uh 20
of
our arr still coming from big data
product
but we're not of course adding new
customers for that segment right
and we also decided to categorize
ourselves as a martech sas company
rather than the big data sas company so
a lot of early employees
believed in
this big data story and then joined us
um
by having a lot of risk joining the uh
small startup
but now they were leaving because
we're now working on different things
we rewrote every single piece of
marketing collateral
we
we designed our messaging and
positioning
case study and everything for the tech
audience
now we decided not to use any tech
jargon because we're now selling into
line of business
the background of ae is very different
now we were selling to the engineering
and tech audience now we're this while
we're selling to the a marketing
department which is more a business line
right
so
those early customers early employees
those are the ones who believed in our
early vision
and
they we decided not to you know i would
say make them happy or make
or
driving the company into the direction
they believed in
so it was really really hard but you
know
instead of slowly dying as a company
were determined to grow so this was a
much needed change for us
so after that
everything worked out really well again
we
grew from 25 to 100 million dollar in
three years
our growth rate got accelerated from 20
to 30 percent to um
70 plus
our gross margin got hugely improved to
late 70s
asp went up which was a little bit
surprising the platform we did we had a
couple of seven figure deals
but now we're closing
350k to 400k a year as an average
the pipeline velocity goes up because
now we can have more consistent pipeline
gets generated
sales cycle gets slower because again we
can control the entire sales cycle by
ourselves not relying on the partners
and most importantly ae ramp up time and
repeatability went up
because we're now selling the um the
the repeatable use cases
so after this
we finally felt like okay we had a
product market fit now it's time to
conquer the category so now we have the
best product a lot of recognition the
best cdp product
there are now 150 plus cdp vendors in
the category because the category got
expanded
but again after fighting with amazon
google microsoft we feel like okay it's
a little bit easier to fight against
those like small to mid-tier vendors
and the ironically the underlying
platform made us easier to handle the
complex enterprise demands
and uh you know which became the best
differentiation for us
which i will describe now
so
um what i found out was
if you become a truly
you know
one billion dollar plus platform company
you really need a killer application by
yourselves
so think about iphone
uh when you buy iphone you expect you
have an access to the email
web and the messaging and without them
it's almost unusable if you have okay
you have ios you can program and you can
develop your application by yourself
um you won't buy it right
the same with windows what you're really
looking for is you want to buy excel
powerpoint and word as a kill
application on top of windows and
obviously
they have a lot of
application built on top but those are
akilah apps owned by microsoft
themselves right
similar pattern with the 100 billion
plus sas company salesforce has
force.com or hyperforce as a
platform layer
and they had the crm or sales cloud as
an initial kill application and then
later on they expanded into multiple
application
service now is same they have now
platform and then it service management
was of course their killer app and they
expanded into customer
and also
employee
solution later on
so related learning is
you actually need to have both a
platform and application
if you want to become 100 million data
plus arr
especially
targeting for the enterprise
and if you have 100 million arr someone
can build an application which generates
a million dollar arr
and at that point you actually become
the true platform
so what treasure data now is landing by
solving specific problems by an app
by using the underlying platform
to expand the use cases within our
customer base
and what we are doing right now is
transitioning from one application
to multiple applications
and this is the diagram i'm looking at
almost every single day and thinking
about it is this is how salesforce has
expanded the ecosystem
so they have what which is the mo the
product lines where is the region they
are selling to and who
is the target
industries and the customer segments
right
so
we were selling cdp
which is the one product
and we were selling into america and
japan
and then we specifically sold to the
enterprise
and in this segment
cdp category itself is expanding but
it's expanding
30 percent
annually only
but we as a company we want to grow more
like 50 to 60 percent or beyond because
um that's uh how sas company gets the
higher valuation and then growth right
so what we ended up doing is okay
we are selling to more region which is
obvious so we raised a lot of money and
then expanding the sales and marketing
team to multiple regions but we're also
now adding multiple applications on top
of the platform
so we were selling to marketing
but the power customer data is not just
limited to the marketing
so i'm now working on the initiative
called beyond marketing so that we can
unlock the power of customer data into
sales division and then contact center
division
so by doing this you can actually expand
your time like greatly
but this requires a lot of complexity
now the sales needs to handle multiple
products with the overlay how the
commission works
the region we have global deals how to
split the uh the the commission across
multiple regions
and uh we really need to train our sales
prep with multiple product lines
so this journey continues and uh you
know this is the journey we are on into
the one billion dollar plus arr
so
the key takeaway
is
um although we started out as a platform
company a lot of customers or businesses
always fund the project by specific
problems
and you always land the customers by
solving specific business problems
and you can say i can solve 100 of your
problems but that doesn't resonate and
then of course that doesn't how it gets
budgeted or the project gets budgeted so
you need an application
to solve the complete business problems
and once you land the underlying
platform allows your customer base to
expand into more use cases
the investor really likes the platform
story to be told and you can keep
talking about the platform for the right
audience but that's not how customers
will purchase or fund the project
and once you have the platform and the
enforced application
you can always sequel additional
applications or ecosystem to expand your
total addressable market time so that
you can grow more and acquire more new
customer segments
and finally the big learning is you know
we felt like around year five to six
this company is going to be dead or
graveyard
and it was just um intuition
but when things are going to wrong and
you feel that wind believe your
intuition
and having the the great advisors are
really you know the key just talk with
them having more advice from them
getting more insights
and
once you decide the pivot and change
start proving small and turn it around
and sometimes you need to make a lonely
decision
to grow the company faster
so thank you very much now i would like
to answer the questions
okay
um so let me
reading through
okay
why did you decide to go to one build
more stocks and going into application
instead of bottling amazon and google
how did you see that playing out during
that period of time okay let's go back
to this slide okay
so
i guess you're the sauce founder at
certain scale um amazon google microsoft
or gaffa becomes a competitor at some
point right
and for us it was more direct they had a
direct competitive product announced and
then we just need to fight against them
right
and the reason why i decided to go to
one is
for two they have hundreds of engineers
custom hardware software network and
infrastructure
so that
you can make the system more economical
and performant per dollar right
so again
the company like snowflake raised the
money and
they're doing really good
but
you know again we were not the high
profile founders in silicon valley
and we we
were not confident we can raise like
this like huge amount of money with the
higher valuation and take the risk
rather we are confident that we are
really close to the customer
and we learn uh how what what type of
application we have to build right so
like this
so that's why we decided to go to one
hope that answer your question
um so
the second question did this happen to
you when you pivoted some of the
original customer that helped you
succeed during your 3.5 million
rent stage no longer have need of your
product what is the best way to handle
this right
so again
we had a lot of customer terms
and we
tried to become
to make it as more like the soft landing
meaning they shrink rather than stop
using so what we have done is we built
some connectors
such as redshift connector or bigquery
connector so that you can still keep
using treasure data
but you can
summarize the data and then put that
into the redshift or bigquery the amazon
then google product so that you can use
both
so we allow our customers to use both
products at the same time which
slowed um the customer churns in certain
sense
but uh you know
at the end of the day a lot of customers
have churned but we we tried some some
of the way to do the the soft landing
so i hope that answered your question
thank you
previously you mentioned that during the
pmf phase you struggled to think sales
efficiency via aes and vp sna's
bps and it is being tailored for
business line versus engineering
audience
how did sales performance increase so
dramatically after you pivoted to
vertical
up how much percentage would you
attribute to a spirit product and market
versus other factors like talent
yeah so this is a really good question
thank you very much
so um the the reason why
i had a great um
sales efficiency after the app is
because we can
target the same audience like
um i think the key to pmf is
uh
solving this specific problem for the
specific persona right
so in this case we're solving a
marketing divisions problem which is
customer get data gets cited and they
can't have the customer 360 view for
their marketing campaign execution right
but if you go to on the platform side
which is big data platform use cases
were so diverse
okay
day one
you're talking with the health care
company
they're trying to analyze certain type
of text document within the corporate
and on day two you're talking with the
automotive company trying to analyze the
telematics data
three you're talking with internet and
social gaming company trying to analyze
the customer behavior so what was really
difficult is for the sales people
to
each time you talk with the
the prospects
the industry then use cases and then
pain points were so much different and
you can only solve a part of the problem
so
we had one sales rep who consistently
hit the quota but he was previously the
engineer
and those type of aes were really really
hard
instead of having ae who is selling the
product to the marketing organization
because there were a lot of reps working
for large companies like adobe sales
force and oracle selling marketing tech
products to the large enterprise right
so that was the uh answer so i hope that
answered your question
you said that when you changed the buyer
persona from engineering to marketing
there was the difference
of fit in the employee
with multiple product lines that's
interesting do you see the same issue
arising now that you have multiple
persona rather than people and sold one
i don't think so i would say um
the reason why we had a lot of employee
chart
is we are completely shifting from big
data story to market story right
and then um it's just the truth that we
didn't um need a lot of talent
especially in the
marketing and sales side for the you
know the platform side
but when you are adding multiple product
lines it's a pure addition to your team
right
yes i'm hiring more people who have more
sales and service background rather than
marketing
but they are all excited to coming on
board because it's just a pure addition
to the market we're addressing
and then the marketing side of the
talent is happy because now we're
addressing more use cases so that you
can bring more products to the customer
right
so that was the answer so thanks for
asking
so how do you sequence going directly
after an app first versus building the
platform initially to decrease cost of
building the apps
so i think this really depends on the
founders and how you start the company
um
for me
i
my interest and passion was data
analytics which was really really broad
so it was really natural to start from
the platform and then traditionally
transitioning to the app right
but if you are the type of founder who
deeply understand the specific segments
on the pain points i think you should
start from the app
but later on
if you want to become a truly enterprise
billion dollar unicorn you have to think
about okay what's the adjacent areas you
can expand what's the common layer you
can have within the product so going
from up to platform
i do think the sequence really depends
on how you start the company and the
initial product
so next question
how did how do you get the meeting with
jerriann how do you get meetings with
great advisors and investors
i would say that was a lot of luck so we
had a
really good angel investor base
especially
bill thai
who is the legendary
[Music]
angel investor in silicon valley
to be honest
i was coming from for um foreign country
which is japan where i was born i was 25
coming here i couldn't speak any english
like 10 years ago
and we had a lot of investors who didn't
want to invest us the team was you know
they were not convinced to the category
and product and team
but once
we had bill thai he made a lot of
introduction to a lot of people
including jerry young
and
over the course of the time he gave us a
lot of
advice
so i think having the
really good
angel investor initially
or
really good vc farm in the early on is
really the key because they're almost
like a doctor and you're the patient
and every time you have a tough
situation you can just call them and ask
the
help and they were really really happy
to help us so we were really fortunate
so next question
hello kazuki could you share the team
skill set difference between software
system integration company versus cdp
product and company if any
the skill set difference
um
i would say
the
product side was not very different
um the platform side we had a lot of
engineer
working on stability scalability we also
added the application engineering team
to focus more on the you know higher
velocity application development so
that's how i organized
but on the sales and marketing side it's
very very different so we
hired the
sales and marketing team
who have experienced more market
products
and
you know
also we were lucky because because we're
selling to the marketing department
most of the marketing people were using
it and then experienced that problem
right so the marketing side um they were
the persona they're the user so
that's natural on the sales side
we are trying to hire from you know
salesforce adobe of the world who are
selling the products into the marketing
division and also we had a 150 plus cdp
companies
and a lot of them are small so they
wanted to join more mature companies so
we're sourcing the talent from them as
well
so i hope that answers your question
have you considered open sourcing big
data platform during your chaotic moment
to offset your small team
why do you think it's better that it
didn't
also that is a really good interesting
question
so we do actually open source
a part of our stack which was full nd
so fluentd
is the data collection part let me find
the additional another diagram
so if you look at on the right side the
fluency is the open source log collector
so we decided to open source everything
on the client side
because it sits within our customers
infrastructure right
but on the
cloud side we made it more proprietary
because we didn't want our competitors
to just host our software into the cloud
and then offering the same right
so we decided to use open source
as a way to get more adaption initially
because
once you install this log collector
using treasure data was instant right
so using open source as a way to
generate the lead initially but we keep
our differentiation as a proprietary
and maybe we had a path to open source
it but i couldn't feel any business
value
at that time and also now as well
so i hope that answered question
um
why was the complete pivot needed in
addition of the verticalized marketing
and then sales functions
yeah so
i would say
yes
practically
what we have changed is one on the
product side we are adding the
application side
and the sales and marketing side we
completely change it but i would call it
as a pivot but
because we are selling to completely
different audience
and uh solving very different uh set of
problems right so
um on one end um that reality is okay
we had
50 to 60 percent of employee were in the
sales and marketing division and what
you're saying is that it's going away
right so
that was
really happened and that was really
really tough
okay this is the last question
did you have any real really
productive partners if so why could you
not replicate those to make the partner
route to selling the platform to the
success
yeah so
again
um you could have a good partner but
really the problem we had was with the
partner we really can't control the
entire sales process
and that was that made it hard the sales
cycle becomes longer the use case is
very different
so
um
that's why we decided to go from the
platform the end to end and i think as
an early stage
product company you really should
address
the um solving the problem by yourself
so
that was it
um again
thanks for joining my session i really
appreciate it
i hope you got some value
by sharing a lot of our treasure data
struggle
[Music]
you